# PANDEMIC #

***CAVEAT EMPTOR: This repository has been made solely for convenience of the author. It is possibly quite unusable by anyone else. Should that change, this notice would be deleted***

Writing academic papers is sometimes a pain because of the differences in formatting required by various journals. In such cases the content barely changes but the formatting changes quite substantially and getting it all to work together is quite a challenge.

For this project I try to leverage [Pandoc](http://www.pandoc.org), which is a fantastic utility for targeting multiple outputs and these include .docx and .pdf. These two formats are probably most important for writing academic papers. The other benefit of using pandoc is that its citation processing is excellent.

Currently we have support for AOM and APA style papers as well as some working paper formats that are required for my institute (Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow)

## What is this repository for?

This repository attempts to collect together various csl files, latex templates and docx style files that can be used to generate papers for journals and conferences just by running `make`.

* CSLs, LATEX and .docx templates for journals in the management area
* Open to other disciplines from contributors

## Repository Structure

The idea behind the repository structure is to allow anyone to fork of this repository and have their own content as a submodule (subdirectory) of this repository. Once the proper assets are in place, running `make` should generate two pdfs and a docx file that corresponds to the format.

- README.md: This readme file
- Makefile: The top level makefile that contains commands of how to compile to various formats
- **csl**: Contains the csl files for the various supported journals
- **filters**: Various filters that might be necessary for a problem free academic environment. Currently one are useful. I intend to work on the dot filter first of all
- **templates**: Contains templates for supported output. reference docx are also found here
- **yaml**: YAML metadata for formats that require it
- **paper_example**: An example directory for a paper, it contains the following subdirectories
    - **figures**: Directory to contain figures generated by filters or otherwise
    - **includes**: Contains header, body-before and body-after includes for LaTeX output formats
    - **out**: Directory to store the output of pandoc etc. This directory is not tracked in git
    - paper.pdc: The main file where the paper is written
    - references.bib: Bibtex file that contains all references for the paper

## How do I get set up?

1. Install pandoc
2. Install a TeX distribution (if you want PDF, for docx outputs a TeX distribution is not required)
3. Fork this directory and then clone to your computer
4. Create a subdirectory under the main directory as per the example of paper_example
5. Execute `make PAPER=<name_of_the_directory> FORMAT=<one_of_the_supported_formats> <Supported output>`

- Currently supported outputs are biblatex, pdf and docx
  - biblatex: uses pandoc to generate a TeX file and then runs pdflatex and biber to get the final pdf. Final pdf is store as paper-<FORMAT>.pdf in the out directory of the name you gave to the command
  - pdf: uses pandoc to generate the PDF including referencing. This is usually the best option for PDF output, however for APA style bibliography this does not yet give proper results, hence the biblatex option
  - docx: This uses pandoc to generate the docx file. Usually the most straightforward way to get to a paper. However references come at the end. You would have to edit the file to get tables, figures and appendices after the bibliography if your format requires (APA does :-()

### Contribution guidelines ###

* None yet. Shall decide if there is any interest

### Who do I talk to? ###

* www.github.com/mhminai

### FAQ ###
http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/140814/biblatex-biber-fails-with-a-strange-error-about-missing-recode-data-xml-file
